[docs] Docs for runtime configuration (#17112)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/yugabyte-platform/manage-deployments/manage-runtime-config.md

---
title: Manage Runtime configuration
headerTitle: Manage Runtime configuration
linkTitle: Manage Runtime configuration
description: Manage your universes by setting runtime configuration keys based on different scopes.
menu:
  preview_yugabyte-platform:
    identifier: manage-runtime-config
    parent: manage-deployments
    weight: 100
type: docs
---

> YugabyteDB Anywhere has a configuration mechanism that is fully compatible with the existing [typesafe config](https://github.com/lightbend/config) format and has the following additional properties:

Reviewer: "configuration mechanism" - what is this about?

Reviewer 2: I believe this should written as `runtime configuration mechanism`. 
Cc @sb-yb

- Runtime/Dynamic: The configuration keys can be set or changed at runtime via the API.

> - Persistent: The site specific configuration changes won't be lost in an install.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Persistent: The site-specific configuration changes won't be lost in an install.
```

> - Backwards compatibility: Fully compatible with existing mechanism with default values residing in the file `application.conf` or `reference.conf`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Backwards compatibility: Fully compatible with the existing mechanism with default values residing in the file `application.conf` or `reference.conf`.
```

- Scoped: Configuration can be applied to a smaller scope, for example, even a single universe can be configured to have certain features.

> - Hierarchical: Scopes are nested and allow for overriding outer scope values in inner scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Hierarchical: Scopes are nested and allow for overriding outer scope values in the inner scope.
```

Currently, the scopes can be categorized as follows:

| Scope | Description | User Access |
|:--- |:--- | :--- |

> | Global | Applies to the entire platform, persists across installs and any value defined in this scope overrides the defaults. | Super Admin |

Reviewer: Is this only for YB support/personnel? If so why is it in customer docs?

Reviewer 2: Its both for YB Support team as well super admins in the customer organization who can use this feature to leverage and modify the runtime settings. I hope that answers your question.

Reviewer 3: @ddhodge in YBA a super admin is a user role. Not our support person.
But many of these are advanced knobs that we have to tweak during debugging.

> | Customer | Applies to a specific customer, persists across installs and any value defined in this scope overrides defaults in Global scope.| Super Admin, Admin |

Reviewer: Same

| Provider | Applies to a specific provider, persists across installs and any value defined in this scope overrides defaults in Customer scope. | Super Admin, Admin |
| Universe | Applies to a specific universe, persists across installs and any value defined in this scope overrides defaults in Customer scope. | Super Admin, Admin |

## Edit or reset runtime configuration keys

> To modify the runtime configuration keys, navigate to your YugabyteDB Anywhere UI and click **Admin** > **Advanced** to open the different configuration scopes similar to the following illustration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify the runtime configuration keys, in YugabyteDB Anywhere, navigate to **Admin** > **Advanced** to display the runtime configuration settings, similar to the following illustration:
```

![Runtime configuration overview](/images/ee/runtime-config-overview.png)

Note that only a Super Admin user has edit or reset access for Global configuration level keys, an Admin user has access for Customer, Provider, and Universe configuration level keys, and all other users only have read-only access.

### Example

> Consider you want to modify the runtime configuration key: `Enforce Auth` (applicable only at Global or Customer scope). Perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify the `Enforce Auth` runtime configuration key (applicable only at Global or Customer scope), perform the following steps:
```

> 1. From your YugabyteDB Anywhere UI, navigate to **Admin** > **Advanced** and click the **Global Configuration** or **Customer Configuration** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From your YugabyteDB Anywhere UI, navigate to **Admin** > **Advanced** and select the **Global Configuration** or **Customer Configuration** tab.
```

> 1. From the **Search** bar, enter "Enforce Auth".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the **Search** bar, enter "Enforce Auth".
```

> 1. From the **Actions** dropdown, select **Edit Configuration** and change the **Config value** to "True".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Actions** and choose **Edit Configuration**.
1. Change the **Config value** to "True" and click **Save**.
```

> 1. Navigate to **Universes**, click **Create Universe**, and verify that for the  **Authentication Settings** section, "Enable YSQL Auth" will not be displayed and you are forced to enter a password for **YSQL Password** and **Confirm Password** fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify the change, navigate to **Universes**, click **Create Universe**, and verify that for the  **Authentication Settings** section, "Enable YSQL Auth" is not be displayed and you are must enter a password in the **YSQL Password** and **Confirm Password** fields.
```
